README.md, before:

# sndcpy (v1.1)

This tool forwards audio from an Android 10 device to the computer. It does not
require any _root_ access. It works on _GNU/Linux_, _Windows_ and _macOS_.

The purpose is to enable [audio forwarding][issue14] while mirroring with
[scrcpy]. However, it can be used independently.

[issue14]: https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy/issues/14
[scrcpy]: https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy


## Requirements

 - The Android device requires at least Android 10.
 - [VLC] must be installed on the computer.

[vlc]: https://www.videolan.org/


## Get the app

Download the latest release:

 - [`sndcpy-v1.1.zip`][release]  
   _SHA256: _b045320ddddbc5a237d6d95213c664f03b2f46ef8bbfcef91c2d95644ed42bbc
 - [`sndcpy-with-adb-windows-v1.1.zip`][release-adb]  
   _SHA256: _0b93c846f574df3f38f53eeee44b1a35b863a49465da8f5cd5b1b69a29305901

_On Windows, for simplicity, take the second archive, which also contains
`adb`._

[release]: https://github.com/rom1v/sndcpy/releases/download/v1.1/sndcpy-v1.1.zip
[release-adb]: https://github.com/rom1v/sndcpy/releases/download/v1.1/sndcpy-with-adb-windows-v1.1.zip

Alternatively, you could [build the app][BUILD].

[BUILD]: BUILD.md

## Run the app

Plug an Android 10 device with USB debugging enabled, and execute:

```bash
./sndcpy
```

If several devices are connected (listed by `adb devices`):

```bash
./sndcpy <serial>  # replace <serial> by the device serial
```

_(omit `./` on Windows)_

It will install the app on the device and start forwarding audio.

Press `Ctrl`+`c` in the terminal to stop (except on Windows, just disconnect the
device or stop capture from the device notifications).

VLC may print this error message once:

```
main stream error: connection error: Connection refused
```

It is "expected", just ignore it.

The sound continues to be played on the device. The volume can be adjusted
independently on the device and on the computer.

## Uninstall

To uninstall the app from the device:

```bash
adb uninstall com.rom1v.sndcpy
```

## Apps restrictions

`sndcpy` may only forward audio from apps which do not [prevent audio
capture][allow]. The rules are detailed in [§capture policy][rules]:

> - By default, apps that target versions up to and including to Android 9.0 do
>   not permit playback capture. To enable it, include
>   `android:allowAudioPlaybackCapture="true"` in the app's `manifest.xml` file.
> - By default, apps that target Android 10 (API level 29) or higher allow their
>   audio to be captured. To disable playback capture, include
>   `android:allowAudioPlaybackCapture="false"` in the app's `manifest.xml`
>   file.

So some apps might need to be updated to support audio capture.

[allow]: https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/media/playback-capture#allowing_playback_capture
[rules]: https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/media/playback-capture#capture_policy

## Audio delay

This is just a proof-of-concept, so it's far from perfect.

For example, jitter may cause VLC to automatically increase its buffering,
causing an unacceptable delay:

```
main input error: ES_OUT_SET_(GROUP_)PCR  is called too late (pts_delay increased to 377 ms)
```

In that case, just restart it.

## Environment variables

The scripts [`sndcpy`](sndcpy) and [`sndcpy.bat`](sndcpy.bat) use some default
values which can be overridden by environment variables.

 - `ADB`: the full path to the `adb` executable
 - `VLC`: the full path to the `vlc` executable
 - `SNDCPY_APK`: the full path to `sndcpy.apk`
 - `SNDCPY_PORT`: the local port to forward to communicate with the device


## Blog post

 - [Audio forwarding on Android 10][blogpost]

[blogpost]: https://blog.rom1v.com/2020/06/audio-forwarding-on-android-10/

Commit message:

Mention best solution for audio forwarding

README.md, after:

# sndcpy (v1.1)

This tool forwards audio from an Android 10 device to the computer. It does not
require any _root_ access. It works on _GNU/Linux_, _Windows_ and _macOS_.

The purpose is to enable [audio forwarding][issue14] while mirroring with
[scrcpy]. However, it can be used independently.

[issue14]: https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy/issues/14
[scrcpy]: https://github.com/Genymobile/scrcpy

## Note

This application is a proof-of-concept. But as explained below, many apps are
restricted and could not forward the audio.

Currently, the best solution to forward audio is to connect the device via
bluetooth to the computer. It works for all apps, it does not suffer from
additional limitations and works for basically all devices, contrary to
_sndcpy_.


## Requirements

 - The Android device requires at least Android 10.
 - [VLC] must be installed on the computer.

[vlc]: https://www.videolan.org/


## Get the app

Download the latest release:

 - [`sndcpy-v1.1.zip`][release]  
   _SHA256: _b045320ddddbc5a237d6d95213c664f03b2f46ef8bbfcef91c2d95644ed42bbc
 - [`sndcpy-with-adb-windows-v1.1.zip`][release-adb]  
   _SHA256: _0b93c846f574df3f38f53eeee44b1a35b863a49465da8f5cd5b1b69a29305901

_On Windows, for simplicity, take the second archive, which also contains
`adb`._

[release]: https://github.com/rom1v/sndcpy/releases/download/v1.1/sndcpy-v1.1.zip
[release-adb]: https://github.com/rom1v/sndcpy/releases/download/v1.1/sndcpy-with-adb-windows-v1.1.zip

Alternatively, you could [build the app][BUILD].

[BUILD]: BUILD.md

## Run the app

Plug an Android 10 device with USB debugging enabled, and execute:

```bash
./sndcpy
```

If several devices are connected (listed by `adb devices`):

```bash
./sndcpy <serial>  # replace <serial> by the device serial
```

_(omit `./` on Windows)_

It will install the app on the device and start forwarding audio.

Press `Ctrl`+`c` in the terminal to stop (except on Windows, just disconnect the
device or stop capture from the device notifications).

VLC may print this error message once:

```
main stream error: connection error: Connection refused
```

It is "expected", just ignore it.

The sound continues to be played on the device. The volume can be adjusted
independently on the device and on the computer.

## Uninstall

To uninstall the app from the device:

```bash
adb uninstall com.rom1v.sndcpy
```

## Apps restrictions

`sndcpy` may only forward audio from apps which do not [prevent audio
capture][allow]. The rules are detailed in [§capture policy][rules]:

> - By default, apps that target versions up to and including to Android 9.0 do
>   not permit playback capture. To enable it, include
>   `android:allowAudioPlaybackCapture="true"` in the app's `manifest.xml` file.
> - By default, apps that target Android 10 (API level 29) or higher allow their
>   audio to be captured. To disable playback capture, include
>   `android:allowAudioPlaybackCapture="false"` in the app's `manifest.xml`
>   file.

So some apps might need to be updated to support audio capture.

[allow]: https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/media/playback-capture#allowing_playback_capture
[rules]: https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/media/playback-capture#capture_policy

## Audio delay

This is just a proof-of-concept, so it's far from perfect.

For example, jitter may cause VLC to automatically increase its buffering,
causing an unacceptable delay:

```
main input error: ES_OUT_SET_(GROUP_)PCR  is called too late (pts_delay increased to 377 ms)
```

In that case, just restart it.

## Environment variables

The scripts [`sndcpy`](sndcpy) and [`sndcpy.bat`](sndcpy.bat) use some default
values which can be overridden by environment variables.

 - `ADB`: the full path to the `adb` executable
 - `VLC`: the full path to the `vlc` executable
 - `SNDCPY_APK`: the full path to `sndcpy.apk`
 - `SNDCPY_PORT`: the local port to forward to communicate with the device


## Blog post

 - [Audio forwarding on Android 10][blogpost]

[blogpost]: https://blog.rom1v.com/2020/06/audio-forwarding-on-android-10/
